hey guys this is Dave Judy and this is
my review of the dell inspiron 7000 with
a 15-inch 4k screen now adele has a huge
spread of notebooks but their Inspiron
line is normally in the middle of the
road so it's not super expensive it's
not super cheap but they usually don't
put their high end tech into this line
so when they offered a 4k screen at this
price point I was pretty interested
so for 1350 you get a 4k screen
Broadwell i7 and 16 gigs of ram which is
pretty sweet right so I picked one up
right away I've been using it for three
weeks now here's my review now before I
begin I know a lot of you guys don't
care but the packaging on this thing is
pretty bad I know right anyways here's a
review visually the top of the notebook
looks and even feels like aluminum it
has a nice smooth finish to it but it's
definitely plastic the logo in the
middle is also black plastic the bottom
of the notebook is also made of that
metallic gray plastic it really does
look like aluminum but once you pop it
off and look at it underneath it's
really obvious that is plastic there are
a handful of star-shaped screws that I
actually removed before filming the shot
which is really nice because you can
access the internals of the notebook
pretty easily the intake vents are very
prominent and it gives it nice venting
the rubber feet that run along the
length of the notebook feel cheap to me
I could easily peel off a corner and
that kind of worries me for long-term
use the hard drive the Dell puts in here
is a 5400 rpm one terabyte drive and the
user experience is really bad with this
stock drive so you can have Dell install
an SSD for a hundred bucks or you can
put your own in but I can't stress
enough do not use the stock drive you
will hate this notebook the battering
the RAM chips are also removable but I
think 16 gigs is the most ram this
computer supports but at least you can
replace them if you need so in terms of
the weight the Inspiron 7000 with the
15-inch 4k screen is 4.65 pounds which
is a little bit heavier than a 15-inch
MacBook Pro and it's dimensions are also
a little bit bigger as well it's not a
massive increase in weight in size but
it is noticeable and I found that my
backpack which was designed for 15-inch
notebooks doesn't actually hold the
Inspiron very con
probably it fits but it's a bit of a
stretch obviously this will be different
for every kind of case or bag but I
think for a 15 inch notebook it is on
the bigger end of things it's also a
little bit thicker but I wouldn't call
it a thick notebook by any means you can
still hold it very comfortably on the
left side of the notebook we have a hole
for an AC adapter an HDMI port a USB 3
and a headphone jack so the HDMI port
does not support 4k 60 Hertz output so
if you want to use an external 4k
display you're gonna have to run it at
30 Hertz which is chopping on the right
side of the notebook we have an SD card
slot two more USBs and a lock slot and
the SD slot actually lets you put the
whole card into the slot unlike some of
the newer and smaller notebooks so
that's kind of cool and I know a lot of
older notebooks could do this but I
found it really cool
so whatever leave me alone you can't
open the lid of the notebook one-handed
now I'm not sure if it's a hinge thing
that will loosen up over time but in my
three weeks of using it and I opened it
and closed it pretty frequently and
never loosened up and want to film this
to show you guys I actually noticed that
there was quite a bit of play on the
screen itself when it was closed there's
a lot of flex on the top of the notebook
as well it could be just from the fact
that it's plastic but I don't feel very
confident in its durability and there is
a lot of flex on the screen as well it
so it kind of worries me that there's
this much flex to the top of the
notebook and the screen and just for
comparison here's a MacBook I know it's
metal and more expensive but there's
much less torsional on that lid when I
wiggle it around there's an LED light up
front it lights up when it's charging
and it lights up orange when it's low on
batteries and you're going to see a lot
of that orange but we'll get into that
later the trackpad feels really cheap
it's plastic it doesn't track well and
quite frankly I hate it I tried to get
used to it but even after using it for
three weeks I definitely disliked the
trackpad on this notebook there's very
little flex to the keyboard which was
actually surprising but there's nothing
particularly good or bad about this
keyboard the 4k touchscreen is nice the
colors of a very faint yellow hue to
them but other than that it's pretty
good I found the screen to be a little
dim at times but for indoor use it's
more than sufficient now if you look at
the right side of the screen you see
that mark there that's actually a scuff
from the screen getting pressed against
the bevel under the direction keys on
the keyboard
I think the durability struggle on this
notebook is real now we have the same
our problem as I demonstrated on my
razor blade review and since the screen
on the inspiron 7000 isn't super bright
it's even more noticeable so the
difference between the two screens seems
trivial in this shot but that coating on
the macbook makes a huge difference when
it comes to real use anti glare the fans
aren't too loud with low to mid 20s when
it's idling and it's mid to high 30s
when the fans kick in at full the
temperatures are actually pretty cool
I'm not going to show the thermal
footage again but you can see the
comparison in the razor blade review
okay let's talk performance even though
this is a Broadwell i7 chip it is very
important to understand if this is a 2
chord chip and not a 4 chord chip like
you often see on higher-end notebooks so
for any applications that can take
advantage of multi-core processing which
is a lot of them performance hurts a 4k
screen has a lot of pixels to push out
it's actually four times the number of
pixels of a 1080p screen so you need
some serious hardware to use the screen
to its full potential 4k video playback
off the drive runs ok there's no skipped
frames but tracking is rough and there's
also some really annoying video driver
issues that make 4k YouTube videos
stutter this was really annoying for the
review but I imagine Dell will resolve
this shortly
now I also tried editing and rendering
some 4k videos in Premiere and it's just
awful a 2 core CPU is really mediocre at
consuming 4k content and it's quite bad
at creating 4k content like really
really bad so it makes you wonder why
there's even a 4k screen on this thing
ok I want to quickly talk about battery
life now it's kind of hard for me to do
this part of the review because the dell
inspiron has a 4k screen and it only
cost 1350 and I can't help but draw
comparisons to my MacBook Pro which cost
a little bit over 2000 and it does not
have a 4k screen so that being said you
have to keep in mind that in order for
Dell to sell this notebook for 1350 they
got to cut some corners somewhere and
battery life is one of them so I'm just
going to say it the dell inspiron 7000
with a 15-inch 4k screen has a really
bad battery life it lasts three hours
the advertised for but realistically
with average to light use you're going
to get three so when you're playing
games at 1080p you're going to get like
a little bit less than an hour maybe 45
minutes to an hour if you're playing if
you're doing like regular internet
browsing really
like browsing three hours if you're
watching movie straight from your drive
two hours so I played a bunch of games
I'd watched quite a few movies on this
just to kind of see the 4k screen in
action and I was always surprised
because I mean three hours feels like a
notebook from the 1990s as I walked the
valley of the shadow of death I take a
look at my life every Allah that's
touching maps so if you're interested in
this notebook and you plan on traveling
a lot but you don't have access to a lot
of outlets I would be hesitant about
picking it up just because of how poor
the battery life is okay I'm not gonna
lie the very first thing I did when I
got this computer was install
counter-strike on it just to see how
games would run in 4k on this thing the
video drivers are pretty immature and I
was a total pain in the ass to get
things set up properly but the bottom
line is this if you want to play games
at 4k you're going to have a really bad
time this thing gets like 15 to 20
frames per second at low settings so
it's not worth playing in 4k but all the
games that I played at 1080p they were
in pretty decent it's not amazing I mean
it runs at you know 50 to 70 frames per
second depending on the game at medium
to low settings so if you want to play
games casually you can do it okay so my
final thoughts on this thing the
Inspiron 7000 with that 4k screen I
think it looks really good on paper I
mean it's tough not to get excited about
a notebook with these kind of specs for
1350 but after using it for three weeks
I have to say I'm not too sure who this
notebook is really for you can't do 4k
gaming on it you certainly can't do
proper 4k video editing on it and
there's issues of durability there's
issues with a really short battery life
so who is it really for I mean if I had
to recommend it to someone it would
probably be a student that doesn't plan
on bringing this to class and you just
kind of leave it in your dorm the whole
time and just use it to watch 4k YouTube
videos but our 4k YouTube video is that
important to you and there's also the
issue of requiring an SSD so you're
gonna have to spend another 100 or 150
bucks to put a solid-state drive into
this thing but to me the biggest problem
is that two core CPU you really limit
the potential of that 4k screen by
forcing that 2 core CPU on to everyone
who purchases his notebook so that's the
end of this review I actually spent a
very long time reviewing this note
because the first one that Dell sent me
didn't have an AMD video card in it and
didn't realize until the very end of the
review after I toured to crap that it
was missing hardware so I hope you guys
liked this review I spent way too long
on it if you guys liked it please give
me a thumbs up and subscribe if you can
really appreciate it it's been nice I'll
see you guys next time